# Creating your first table

Table creation/modification is a two part process:

1. First, we need to generate (or update) the field group’s table definition JSON file.
2. Then, we need to apply the definition to the database in order to create new tables or modify existing ones.

## To generate the definition file:

1. Head to the field group you wish to create a table for.
2. Make sure the field group has one object mapping in its location settings – Either **User Form** or **Post Type**
   will work
3. Scroll down to the **ACF Custom Database Table Settings** meta box and toggle the **Manage Table Definition** option
   to **Yes**.
4. Enter a table name for your table. You can only specify this once, so choose wisely. Changing this down the track is
   not impossible, but currently requires modification of post metadata for the field group and an SQL query to modify
   the database.
5. In the **Publish** meta box, click **Update**.
6. This will generate your table definition as a JSON file. Details of this will be output in the post updated message
   towards the top of the screen.

## To apply the definition to the database:

1. You can either click on the blue **Manage Database Tables** button in the post update message, or you can head to
   **Custom Fields > Database Tables > Manage Tables**.
2. Review the information on the screen and take a full backup of your database as per the instructions.
3. When you are ready to apply the changes, click the confirmation check box and then click the blue
   **Create/Update Tables** button.

You’ll see the results from this action in the update message towards the top of the screen.

**Note:** the output is generated by WordPress’ built in database modification function and will report that a table was
‘created’ whether it already exists or not. If you see the ‘Created table xxx’ message for a table you’ve already
created, it just means the table definition passed through WordPress’ internal database modification process and any
available modifications have been applied to the table. Your data is still there, but in the unlikely event where data
is missing, you’ll have your back up to roll back to.

Table creation is now complete. Any data you save for the relevant object (post, user) will now be stored in the custom
database table.